[OSDOCS#12841] Observability metrics correlation for ShiftStack (#86741)
openshift/openshift-docs: observability/monitoring/shiftstack-prometheus-configuration.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="shiftstack-prometheus-configuration"]
= Monitoring clusters that run on RHOSO
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]                   
:context: shiftstack-prometheus-configuration
                                                                
toc::[]

You can correlate observability metrics for clusters that run on {rhoso-first}. By collecting metrics from both environments, you can monitor and troubleshoot issues across the infrastructure and application layers.

There are two supported methods for metric correlation for clusters that run on {rhoso}:

- https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#remote-write-tuning[Remote writing] to an external Prometheus instance.

> - Collecting data emitted from the {product-title} federation endpoint to the {rhoso} observability stack.

Author: Works for me.

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="shiftstack-prometheus-configuration"]
= Monitoring clusters that run on OpenStack
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]                   
:context: shiftstack-prometheus-configuration
                                                                
toc::[]

> // TODO: Is this really RHOSO-first, and RHOSP will require tweaks? What's the audience impact if so?

Reviewer: It's RHOSO first in the sense that we worked on the use case with RHOSO in mind, and this is what QE have tested. However, the same recipe could be adapted without too much trouble to other environments.

You can correlate observability metrics for clusters that run on {rh-openstack-first} or Red Hat OpenStack Services on OpenShift (RHOSO). By collecting metrics from both environments, you can monitor and troubleshoot issues across the infrastructure and application layers.

There are two supported methods for metric correlation for clusters that run on {rh-openstack}:

- https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/remote_write/#remote-write-tuning[Remote writing] to an external Prometheus instance.

> - Collecting data emitted from the federation endpoint of a cluster to a {rh-openstack}-hosted Prometheus instance.

Reviewer 2: The target Prometheus instance is not just "a" Prometheus instance: it's really THE Prometheus instance of OpenStack that collects and exposes the OpenStack metrics. Do you think there can be a way to express this concept better? Please consider something like "to your {rh-openstack} observability stack"

@mandre ideas?

---

I'd also make it clearer that the Federation endpoint is OpenShift's.

Reviewer: perhaps something like the following?
```suggestion
- Collecting data emitted from the {product-title} federation endpoint to the RHOSO observability stack.
```
